# Disclaimer

This document does not constitute an offer of services in jurisdictions where Standard & Poor’s or its affiliates do not have the necessary licenses. All information provided by Standard & Poor’s is impersonal and not tailored to the needs of any person, entity or group of persons. Standard & Poor’s receives compensation in connection with licensing its indices to third parties. Any returns or performance provided within are for illustrative purposes only and do not demonstrate actual performance. Past performance is not a guarantee of future investment results. It is not possible to invest directly in an index. Exposure to an asset class is available through investable instruments based on an index. Standard & Poor’s and its affiliates do not sponsor, endorse, sell, promote or manage any investment fund or other vehicle that is offered by third parties and that seeks to provide an investment return based on the returns of any Standard & Poor’s index. There is no assurance that investment products based on the index will accurately track index performance or provide positive investment returns. Standard & Poor’s is not an investment advisor, and Standard & Poor’s and its affiliates make no representation regarding the advisability of investing in any such investment fund or other vehicle. A decision to invest in any such investment fund or other vehicle should not be made in reliance on any of the statements set forth in this document. Prospective investors are advised to make an investment in any such fund or other vehicle only after carefully considering the risks associated with investing in such funds, as detailed in an offering memorandum or similar document that is prepared by or on behalf of the issuer of the investment fund or other vehicle. Inclusion of a security within an index is not a recommendation by Standard & Poor’s or its affiliates to buy, sell, or hold such security, nor is it considered to be investment advice. These materials have been prepared solely for informational purposes based upon information generally available to the public from sources believed to be reliable. No content (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, model, software or other application or output therefrom) or any part thereof (Content) may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any form by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of Standard & Poor’s. The Content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. Standard & Poor’s, its affiliates, and any third-party providers, as well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents (collectively S\&P Parties) do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or availability of the Content. S\&P Parties are not responsible for any errors or omissions, regardless of the cause, for the results obtained from the use of the Content, or for the security or maintenance of any data input by the user. The Content is provided on an “as is” basis. S\&P PARTIES DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A S\&P Dow Jones Indices: Float Adjustment Methodology 15 PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, FREEDOM FROM BUGS, SOFTWARE ERRORS OR DEFECTS, THAT THE CONTENT’S FUNCTIONING WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT THE CONTENT WILL OPERATE WITH ANY SOFTWARE OR HARDWARE CONFIGURATION. In no event shall S\&P Parties be liable to any party for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive, special or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including, without limitation, lost income or lost profits and opportunity costs) in connection with any use of the Content even if advised of the possibility of such damages. S\&P keeps certain activities of its business units separate from each other in order to preserve the independence and objectivity of their respective activities. As a result, certain business units of S\&P may have information that is not available to other S\&P business units. S\&P has established policies and procedures to maintain the confidentiality of certain non-public information received in connection with each analytical process. In addition, S\&P and its affiliates provide a wide range of services to, or relating to, many organizations, including issuers of securities, investment advisers, broker-dealers, investment banks, other financial institutions and financial intermediaries, and accordingly may receive fees or other economic benefits from those organizations, including organizations whose securities or services they may recommend, rate, include in model portfolios, evaluate or otherwise address. Copyright © 2012 S\&P Dow Jones Indices. All rights reserved. Redistribution, reproduction and/or photocopying in whole or in part is prohibited without written permission. STANDARD & POOR'S and S\&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC ("S\&P"). Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC (“Dow Jones”).
